---
title: Distributed Control of Multiagent Systems
speaker:
  name: Silvia Ferrari
  affil: MAE, Cornell
  url: http://lisc.mae.cornell.edu/
---

Collaborative agents, such as unmanned ground, aerial, and underwater
vehicles or robots equipped with on-board wireless communication devices
and sensors are becoming crucial to both civilian and military
applications because of their ability to replace or assist humans in
carrying out dangerous yet vital missions. This talk discusses a general
framework for the optimal control of multiscale dynamical systems
comprised of many collaborative agents. The distributed optimal control
(DOC) approach presented is developed for applications in which the
performance of the multiscale dynamical system can be represented in
terms of a restriction operator, such as a probability density function,
that maps the microscopic agent state into a macroscopic state. The
evolution of the restriction operator is then optimized subject to a
macroscopic description provided by the continuity equation. To date,
DOC optimality conditions have been derived using Calculus of
Variations, and both direct and indirect methods of solution have been
developed and demonstrated for multiagent path planning and control.
This talk will review these recent developments and discuss future
research directions involving robust and adaptive control for multiagent
systems, and the control of multiple teams of heterogeneous agents.
