---
title: Fast Fingerprints for Power System Events
speaker:
  name: David Bindel
  affil: CS, Cornell
  url: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~bindel/
---
i
In order to operate the power grid aggressively enough to make full use
of renewable power, operators need new tools for situational awareness
and control.  Phasor measurement units (PMUs) have been developed for
the past thirty years, but first saw wide-scale production  grade
deployments in the US after DOE investments funded by the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.  PMUs report voltage and current
phasors thirty or more times every second, promising operators a
real-time picture of the state of the grid -- but only with systems and
algorithms that transmit the data and analyze this information at
similar rates. In this talk, we describe fast analysis using PMU-sensed
"fingerprints" of different types of system events  (e.g. changes in
line status or reconfiguration of substations).  Our system, FLiER
(Fingerprint Linear Estimation Routine) identifies system changes in
close to real time through a novel filtering operation that lets us
discard most potential events from consideration with little
computation. We describe the elements of our approach, as well as giving
an overview of work in progress to improve the quality of our results
(and the range of contingencies we can handle) by monitoring the
frequency content of transient "ringing" as the system passes from one
state to another.

